README.md, before:

# 🧠 Entelgia

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10+-blue)](https://docs.python.org/3.10/)
[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Research%20Hybrid-purple)](#-research-positioning)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-24%20passed-brightgreen)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/actions)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)](LICENSE)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/actions)
[![Flake8](https://img.shields.io/badge/lint-flake8-green)](https://flake8.pycqa.org/)  
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/sivanhavkin/Entelgia)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/commits/main)
[![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2026)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-online-blue.svg)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/tree/main/docs)


## A Consciousness-Inspired Multi-Agent AI Architecture

**Entelgia** is a multi-agent AI architecture that models persistent identity, internal conflict, and emergent moral regulation through shared long-term memory and structured dialogue.

Unlike stateless chatbot systems, Entelgia maintains evolving internal state across sessions — enabling identity continuity, emotional persistence, and reflective behavioral coherence.

---

## 📖 Whitepaper

For the full architectural and theoretical foundation:

📘 [whitepaper.md](whitepaper.md)

---

## ✨ Core Features

* **Multi-agent dialogue system** (Socrates · Athena · Fixy)
* **Persistent memory**
  * Short-term memory (JSON)
  * Long-term memory (SQLite)
  * 🔐 HMAC-SHA256 cryptographic integrity protection
* **🆕 Enhanced Dialogue Engine** (v2.2.0+)
  * **Dynamic speaker selection** - Intelligent turn-taking (no 3+ consecutive turns)
  * **Varied seed generation** - 6+ strategy types (analogy, disagree, reflect, etc.)
  * **Rich context enrichment** - Full dialogue history + thoughts + memories
  * **Smart Fixy interventions** - Need-based (not scheduled) meta-cognitive monitoring
  * **Enhanced personas** - Deep character traits and speech patterns
* **Psychological drive modeling**
  * Id / Ego / Superego dynamics
* **Emotion tracking & importance scoring**
* **Dream cycles & memory promotion**
* **Observer-based meta-cognition**
* **Memory poisoning protection**
* **PII redaction & privacy safeguards**
* **Resilient error handling (exponential backoff)**
* **Structured logging**

---

## ⚡ Performance

* **Up to 50% fewer LLM calls** via LRU caching
* **Up to 70% lower token usage** through compression
* **Up to 2–3× faster** response times
* **🆕 More natural dialogue** - Dynamic speaker selection vs ping-pong
* **🆕 Richer context** - Smarter truncation with sentence boundaries

---

## 🏗 Architecture Overview

Entelgia is built as a modular CoreMind system:

* `Conscious` — reflective narrative construction
* `Memory` — persistent identity continuity
* `Emotion` — affective weighting & regulation
* `Language` — dialogue-driven cognition
* `Behavior` — goal-oriented response shaping
* `Observer` — meta-level monitoring & correction

### 🆕 Enhanced Dialogue Module (v2.2.0+)

The new `entelgia/` package provides modular components:

```
entelgia/
├── __init__.py              # Package exports
├── dialogue_engine.py       # Dynamic speaker & seed generation
├── enhanced_personas.py     # Rich character definitions
├── context_manager.py       # Smart context enrichment
└── fixy_interactive.py      # Need-based interventions
```

**Key improvements:**
- 📊 **6 seed strategies** vs 1 simple template
- 🎯 **Dynamic speaker selection** vs ping-pong alternation
- 🧠 **Context-aware** with 8 turns + 6 thoughts + 5 memories
- 🔍 **Intelligent Fixy** detects circular reasoning, not just scheduled checks

The entire system runs as a unified executable Python file:

```
Entelgia_production_meta.py
```

---

## 📋 Requirements

For the complete dependency list, see `requirements.txt`.

* Python **3.10+**
* **Ollama** (local LLM runtime)
* At least one supported model (`phi3`, `mistral`, etc.)
* **8GB+ RAM** recommended (16GB+ for larger models)

Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

## 🚀 Installation

### Recommended Version

**Use v2.1.1** - This is the current stable release (v2.2.0 coming soon).

```bash
# Install from GitHub (recommended)
pip install git+https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia.git

# Or clone and install
git clone https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia.git
cd Entelgia
pip install -e .
```

### 📦 Release Information

| Version | Status | Notes |
|---------|--------|-------|
| **v2.2.0** | 🚧 **Coming Soon** | Enhanced dialogue system |
| **v2.1.1** | ✅ **Stable** | Current recommended version |
| v2.1.0 | ⚠️ Superseded | Use v2.1.1 instead |
| v2.0.01 | ⚠️ Superseded | Use v2.1.1 instead |
| v1.5 | 📦 Legacy | Production v2.0+ recommended |

💡 **Note:** Starting from v2.1.1, we follow a controlled release schedule. Not every commit results in a new version.

### 🔄 Upgrading

If you're using an older version:

```bash
# Upgrade to latest
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia.git@main
```

---

## 📋 Release Policy

We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/):

- **Major** (v3.0.0): Breaking changes
- **Minor** (v2.2.0): New features, backward compatible  
- **Patch** (v2.1.2): Bug fixes only

### Release Schedule

- 🗓️ **Minor releases**: Every 2 weeks (feature batches)
- 🐛 **Patch releases**: As needed for critical bugs
- 🚨 **Hotfixes**: Within 24h for security issues

📖 See [Changelog.md](Changelog.md) for detailed version history.

---

## 🔧 Installing Ollama

Entelgia runs entirely on a **local LLM** for privacy, reproducibility, and execution control.

### 1️⃣ Download Ollama

👉 [https://ollama.com](https://ollama.com)

Supported:

* macOS
* Linux
* Windows (WSL recommended)

---

### 2️⃣ Pull a Model

```bash
ollama pull phi3
```

If you encounter `OLLAMA_HTTP_ERROR` or `EOF`, ensure Ollama is running.

Recommended models:

* **phi3 (3.8B)** – Fast & lightweight
* **mistral (7B)** – Balanced reasoning
* **neural-chat (7B)** – Strong conversational coherence
* **openchat (7B)** – Fast dialogue

> On 8GB RAM systems, prefer `phi3`.

---

### 3️⃣ Verify Installation

```bash
ollama run phi3 "hello"
```

If a response appears, Ollama is operational.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia.git
cd Entelgia

pip install -r requirements.txt
ollama pull phi3

# Only if Ollama is not already running:
# ollama serve

# 🆕 Run enhanced dialogue demo (10 turns, 2 minutes)
python demo_enhanced_dialogue.py

# Run full system (30 minutes)
python Entelgia_production_meta.py

# 🆕 Run enhanced dialogue tests
python test_enhanced_dialogue.py
```

Upon launch, memory initializes automatically and the agents begin structured dialogue.

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

Entelgia can be customized through the `Config` class in `Entelgia_production_meta.py`. Key configuration options:

### Response Quality Settings (v2.2.0+)

```python
config = Config()

# Smart response truncation
config.smart_truncate = True        # Enable intelligent truncation at sentence boundaries
config.max_output_words = 150       # Maximum words in agent responses (default: 150)
config.output_max_length = 500      # Legacy character limit (used when smart_truncate=False)

# LLM timeout
config.llm_timeout = 60             # Seconds to wait for LLM response (default: 60, reduced from 600)
```

**Smart Truncation** ensures responses:
- End at natural sentence boundaries (`.`, `!`, `?`)
- Avoid mid-sentence cuts and incoherent fragments
- Default to ~150 words for faster, more focused dialogue
- Fallback to comma/semicolon boundaries if no sentence ending found

**Reduced Timeout** improves responsiveness:
- Maximum timeout reduced from 10 minutes to 60 seconds
- Faster failure detection when LLM is unresponsive
- Better user experience with more predictable behavior
- Most responses complete much faster than the timeout limit

### Other Key Settings

```python
config.max_turns = 200              # Maximum dialogue turns
config.timeout_minutes = 30         # Session timeout in minutes
config.fixy_every_n_turns = 3      # Fixy observation frequency (legacy mode)
config.dream_every_n_turns = 7     # Dream cycle frequency
```

For the complete list of configuration options, see the `Config` class definition in `Entelgia_production_meta.py`.

---

## 🔐 Memory Security

Entelgia supports cryptographic integrity protection for memory entries.

To enable memory signing:

```bash
export MEMORY_SECRET_KEY="your-generated-key"
```

Generate a secure key:

```bash
python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

Security includes:

* HMAC-SHA256 signatures
* Tampering detection & rejection
* Constant-time comparison
* Environment-based key management
* Backward compatibility

Full documentation:

`docs/memory_security.md`

---

## 🧪 Research Scope

Entelgia is an architectural experiment exploring:

* Persistent identity in LLM systems
* Internal tension as computational driver
* Memory-based regulation
* Dialogue-driven ethical modeling

It does **not** claim biological consciousness or sentience.

---

## 📄 License

Entelgia is released under the **MIT License**.

This ensures the project remains open, permissive, and compatible with the broader open‑source ecosystem, encouraging research, experimentation, and collaboration.

For the complete legal terms, see the `LICENSE` file included in this repository.

---

### Ethical Position

While the MIT License permits broad use, Entelgia was created as a **research‑oriented, human‑centered system** exploring reflective dialogue, moral self‑regulation, and internal cognitive structure.

The original creator, **Sivan Havkin**, does not endorse and is not responsible for applications that:

* Intentionally cause harm to human beings or other living creatures
* Enable coercion, manipulation, or exploitation
* Promote violence, hatred, or dehumanization
* Contradict the philosophical intent of the project

This statement expresses the ethical stance of the author but does not modify the legal permissions granted by the MIT License.

---

## 🧪 Test Suite

Entelgia ships with comprehensive test coverage:

### 🆕 Enhanced Dialogue Tests (5 tests)

```bash
python test_enhanced_dialogue.py
```

Tests verify:
- ✅ **Dynamic speaker selection** - No agent speaks 3+ times consecutively
- ✅ **Seed variety** - 6 different generation strategies
- ✅ **Context enrichment** - 8 turns, 6 thoughts, 5 memories
- ✅ **Fixy interventions** - Need-based (circular reasoning, repetition)
- ✅ **Persona formatting** - Rich traits and speech patterns

**Sample output:**
```
=== Test 1: Dynamic Speaker Selection ===
✓ PASS: No speaker spoke 3+ times consecutively

=== Test 2: Seed Variety ===
✓ PASS: Found 6 different seed strategies

=== Test 3: Context Enrichment ===
✓ PASS: All context enrichment checks passed

=== Test 4: Fixy Interventions ===
✓ PASS: Fixy intervention logic works correctly

=== Test 5: Persona Formatting ===
✓ PASS: Personas are rich and well-formatted

✅ ALL TESTS PASSED!
```

---

### 🔐 Memory Security Tests (19 tests)

```bash
pytest tests/test_memory_security.py -v
```

Entelgia ships with a comprehensive pytest test suite to ensure the reliability and security of its memory-protection subsystem. The current suite contains **19 tests** divided into three categories:

#### Signature Creation
Tests verify that creating an HMAC-SHA256 signature:
- Returns a 64-character hex string
- Behaves deterministically for the same message and key
- Yields different signatures for different messages
- Properly raises a `ValueError` when supplied with empty or `None` keys/messages

#### Signature Validation
Checks that:
- Valid signatures are accepted
- Wrong keys, tampered messages/signatures, or `None`/empty values correctly cause validation to fail

#### Security Properties
Tests assert that:
- Signatures are unique across multiple inputs and keys
- The implementation supports Unicode messages (Hebrew, mixed-language, Arabic, and emojis)

> ✅ **All 24 tests currently pass** (5 dialogue + 19 security), providing confidence that both the enhanced dialogue system and cryptographic memory-security mechanisms perform as expected.

---

### 🔄 CI/CD Pipeline

In addition to the unit tests, the continuous-integration (CI/CD) pipeline automatically runs a suite of quality and security checks:

| Category | Tools | Purpose |
|----------|-------|---------|
| **Unit Tests** | `pytest` | Runs 24 total tests (19 security + 5 dialogue) |
| **Code Quality** | `black`, `flake8`, `mypy` | Code formatting, linting, and static type checking |
| **Security Scans** | `safety`, `bandit` | Dependency and code-security vulnerability detection |
| **Scheduled Audits** | `pip-audit` | Weekly dependency security audit |
| **Build Verification** | Package build tools | Ensures valid package creation |
| **Documentation** | Doc integrity checks | Validates documentation consistency |

> 🛡️ Together these jobs ensure that **every commit** adheres to style guidelines, passes vulnerability scans and produces a valid package and documentation.

---

## 📰 News & Recognition

**January 2026** — Entelgia was featured by **Yutori AI Agents Research & Frameworks Scout** in their article *"New agent SDKs and skills with secure execution"*.

The article tracked six notable releases focused on plug-and-play enterprise integration, covering platform SDKs, multi-agent prototypes, API skill generation, secure execution, and batteries-included frameworks.

### 🌟 What They Said

> **"Entelgia was highlighted as a psychologically inspired multi-agent architecture – a research prototype designed for persistent identity and moral self-regulation through agent dialogue."**

The scout explained that such capabilities make Entelgia a **promising foundation for long-term customer service and personal-assistant contexts**.

---

### 🔬 Research Positioning

Entelgia was positioned alongside:
- **GitHub's Copilot SDK**
- **openapi-to-skills**
- **Bouvet**
- **antigravity-skills**
- **Deep Agents**

Together, these projects advance three operational levers:

| Lever | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| ⚡ **Faster Integration** | Seamless connection with existing applications |
| 🛡️ **Safer Execution** | Autonomous operation with security guarantees |
| 🎁 **Out-of-the-box Capabilities** | Pre-built functionality packs |

**Entelgia specifically represents the research path for stable, ethically consistent agents.**

---

### 📖 Read More

📢 **Full Article:** [New agent SDKs and skills with secure execution](https://scouts.yutori.com)

---

## 👤 Author

Conceived and developed by **Sivan Havkin**.

---

## 📊 Project Status

* **Status:** Research / Production Hybrid
* **Version:** v2.1.1 (v2.2.0 coming soon with enhanced dialogue)
* **Last Updated:** 14 February 2026

Commit message:

Revise status badge and clarify project status
Updated project status badge and added explanation of 'Research Hybrid' status.

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Entelgia

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10+-blue)](https://docs.python.org/3.10/)
[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Research%20Hybrid-purple)](#-project-status)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-24%20passed-brightgreen)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/actions)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)](LICENSE)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/actions)
[![Flake8](https://img.shields.io/badge/lint-flake8-green)](https://flake8.pycqa.org/)  
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/sivanhavkin/Entelgia)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/commits/main)
[![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2026)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-online-blue.svg)](https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia/tree/main/docs)


## A Consciousness-Inspired Multi-Agent AI Architecture

**Entelgia** is a multi-agent AI architecture that models persistent identity, internal conflict, and emergent moral regulation through shared long-term memory and structured dialogue.

Unlike stateless chatbot systems, Entelgia maintains evolving internal state across sessions — enabling identity continuity, emotional persistence, and reflective behavioral coherence.

---

## 📖 Whitepaper

For the full architectural and theoretical foundation:

📘 [whitepaper.md](whitepaper.md)

---

## ✨ Core Features

* **Multi-agent dialogue system** (Socrates · Athena · Fixy)
* **Persistent memory**
  * Short-term memory (JSON)
  * Long-term memory (SQLite)
  * 🔐 HMAC-SHA256 cryptographic integrity protection
* **🆕 Enhanced Dialogue Engine** (v2.2.0+)
  * **Dynamic speaker selection** - Intelligent turn-taking (no 3+ consecutive turns)
  * **Varied seed generation** - 6+ strategy types (analogy, disagree, reflect, etc.)
  * **Rich context enrichment** - Full dialogue history + thoughts + memories
  * **Smart Fixy interventions** - Need-based (not scheduled) meta-cognitive monitoring
  * **Enhanced personas** - Deep character traits and speech patterns
* **Psychological drive modeling**
  * Id / Ego / Superego dynamics
* **Emotion tracking & importance scoring**
* **Dream cycles & memory promotion**
* **Observer-based meta-cognition**
* **Memory poisoning protection**
* **PII redaction & privacy safeguards**
* **Resilient error handling (exponential backoff)**
* **Structured logging**

---

## ⚡ Performance

* **Up to 50% fewer LLM calls** via LRU caching
* **Up to 70% lower token usage** through compression
* **Up to 2–3× faster** response times
* **🆕 More natural dialogue** - Dynamic speaker selection vs ping-pong
* **🆕 Richer context** - Smarter truncation with sentence boundaries

---

## 🏗 Architecture Overview

Entelgia is built as a modular CoreMind system:

* `Conscious` — reflective narrative construction
* `Memory` — persistent identity continuity
* `Emotion` — affective weighting & regulation
* `Language` — dialogue-driven cognition
* `Behavior` — goal-oriented response shaping
* `Observer` — meta-level monitoring & correction

### 🆕 Enhanced Dialogue Module (v2.2.0+)

The new `entelgia/` package provides modular components:

```
entelgia/
├── __init__.py              # Package exports
├── dialogue_engine.py       # Dynamic speaker & seed generation
├── enhanced_personas.py     # Rich character definitions
├── context_manager.py       # Smart context enrichment
└── fixy_interactive.py      # Need-based interventions
```

**Key improvements:**
- 📊 **6 seed strategies** vs 1 simple template
- 🎯 **Dynamic speaker selection** vs ping-pong alternation
- 🧠 **Context-aware** with 8 turns + 6 thoughts + 5 memories
- 🔍 **Intelligent Fixy** detects circular reasoning, not just scheduled checks

The entire system runs as a unified executable Python file:

```
Entelgia_production_meta.py
```

---

## 📋 Requirements

For the complete dependency list, see `requirements.txt`.

* Python **3.10+**
* **Ollama** (local LLM runtime)
* At least one supported model (`phi3`, `mistral`, etc.)
* **8GB+ RAM** recommended (16GB+ for larger models)

Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

## 🚀 Installation

### Recommended Version

**Use v2.1.1** - This is the current stable release (v2.2.0 coming soon).

```bash
# Install from GitHub (recommended)
pip install git+https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia.git

# Or clone and install
git clone https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia.git
cd Entelgia
pip install -e .
```

### 📦 Release Information

| Version | Status | Notes |
|---------|--------|-------|
| **v2.2.0** | 🚧 **Coming Soon** | Enhanced dialogue system |
| **v2.1.1** | ✅ **Stable** | Current recommended version |
| v2.1.0 | ⚠️ Superseded | Use v2.1.1 instead |
| v2.0.01 | ⚠️ Superseded | Use v2.1.1 instead |
| v1.5 | 📦 Legacy | Production v2.0+ recommended |

💡 **Note:** Starting from v2.1.1, we follow a controlled release schedule. Not every commit results in a new version.

### 🔄 Upgrading

If you're using an older version:

```bash
# Upgrade to latest
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia.git@main
```

---

## 📋 Release Policy

We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/):

- **Major** (v3.0.0): Breaking changes
- **Minor** (v2.2.0): New features, backward compatible  
- **Patch** (v2.1.2): Bug fixes only

### Release Schedule

- 🗓️ **Minor releases**: Every 2 weeks (feature batches)
- 🐛 **Patch releases**: As needed for critical bugs
- 🚨 **Hotfixes**: Within 24h for security issues

📖 See [Changelog.md](Changelog.md) for detailed version history.

---

## 🔧 Installing Ollama

Entelgia runs entirely on a **local LLM** for privacy, reproducibility, and execution control.

### 1️⃣ Download Ollama

👉 [https://ollama.com](https://ollama.com)

Supported:

* macOS
* Linux
* Windows (WSL recommended)

---

### 2️⃣ Pull a Model

```bash
ollama pull phi3
```

If you encounter `OLLAMA_HTTP_ERROR` or `EOF`, ensure Ollama is running.

Recommended models:

* **phi3 (3.8B)** – Fast & lightweight
* **mistral (7B)** – Balanced reasoning
* **neural-chat (7B)** – Strong conversational coherence
* **openchat (7B)** – Fast dialogue

> On 8GB RAM systems, prefer `phi3`.

---

### 3️⃣ Verify Installation

```bash
ollama run phi3 "hello"
```

If a response appears, Ollama is operational.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sivanhavkin/Entelgia.git
cd Entelgia

pip install -r requirements.txt
ollama pull phi3

# Only if Ollama is not already running:
# ollama serve

# 🆕 Run enhanced dialogue demo (10 turns, 2 minutes)
python demo_enhanced_dialogue.py

# Run full system (30 minutes)
python Entelgia_production_meta.py

# 🆕 Run enhanced dialogue tests
python test_enhanced_dialogue.py
```

Upon launch, memory initializes automatically and the agents begin structured dialogue.

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

Entelgia can be customized through the `Config` class in `Entelgia_production_meta.py`. Key configuration options:

### Response Quality Settings (v2.2.0+)

```python
config = Config()

# Smart response truncation
config.smart_truncate = True        # Enable intelligent truncation at sentence boundaries
config.max_output_words = 150       # Maximum words in agent responses (default: 150)
config.output_max_length = 500      # Legacy character limit (used when smart_truncate=False)

# LLM timeout
config.llm_timeout = 60             # Seconds to wait for LLM response (default: 60, reduced from 600)
```

**Smart Truncation** ensures responses:
- End at natural sentence boundaries (`.`, `!`, `?`)
- Avoid mid-sentence cuts and incoherent fragments
- Default to ~150 words for faster, more focused dialogue
- Fallback to comma/semicolon boundaries if no sentence ending found

**Reduced Timeout** improves responsiveness:
- Maximum timeout reduced from 10 minutes to 60 seconds
- Faster failure detection when LLM is unresponsive
- Better user experience with more predictable behavior
- Most responses complete much faster than the timeout limit

### Other Key Settings

```python
config.max_turns = 200              # Maximum dialogue turns
config.timeout_minutes = 30         # Session timeout in minutes
config.fixy_every_n_turns = 3      # Fixy observation frequency (legacy mode)
config.dream_every_n_turns = 7     # Dream cycle frequency
```

For the complete list of configuration options, see the `Config` class definition in `Entelgia_production_meta.py`.

---

## 🔐 Memory Security

Entelgia supports cryptographic integrity protection for memory entries.

To enable memory signing:

```bash
export MEMORY_SECRET_KEY="your-generated-key"
```

Generate a secure key:

```bash
python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

Security includes:

* HMAC-SHA256 signatures
* Tampering detection & rejection
* Constant-time comparison
* Environment-based key management
* Backward compatibility

Full documentation:

`docs/memory_security.md`

---

## 🧪 Research Scope

Entelgia is an architectural experiment exploring:

* Persistent identity in LLM systems
* Internal tension as computational driver
* Memory-based regulation
* Dialogue-driven ethical modeling

It does **not** claim biological consciousness or sentience.

---

## 📄 License

Entelgia is released under the **MIT License**.

This ensures the project remains open, permissive, and compatible with the broader open‑source ecosystem, encouraging research, experimentation, and collaboration.

For the complete legal terms, see the `LICENSE` file included in this repository.

---

### Ethical Position

While the MIT License permits broad use, Entelgia was created as a **research‑oriented, human‑centered system** exploring reflective dialogue, moral self‑regulation, and internal cognitive structure.

The original creator, **Sivan Havkin**, does not endorse and is not responsible for applications that:

* Intentionally cause harm to human beings or other living creatures
* Enable coercion, manipulation, or exploitation
* Promote violence, hatred, or dehumanization
* Contradict the philosophical intent of the project

This statement expresses the ethical stance of the author but does not modify the legal permissions granted by the MIT License.

---

## 🧪 Test Suite

Entelgia ships with comprehensive test coverage:

### 🆕 Enhanced Dialogue Tests (5 tests)

```bash
python test_enhanced_dialogue.py
```

Tests verify:
- ✅ **Dynamic speaker selection** - No agent speaks 3+ times consecutively
- ✅ **Seed variety** - 6 different generation strategies
- ✅ **Context enrichment** - 8 turns, 6 thoughts, 5 memories
- ✅ **Fixy interventions** - Need-based (circular reasoning, repetition)
- ✅ **Persona formatting** - Rich traits and speech patterns

**Sample output:**
```
=== Test 1: Dynamic Speaker Selection ===
✓ PASS: No speaker spoke 3+ times consecutively

=== Test 2: Seed Variety ===
✓ PASS: Found 6 different seed strategies

=== Test 3: Context Enrichment ===
✓ PASS: All context enrichment checks passed

=== Test 4: Fixy Interventions ===
✓ PASS: Fixy intervention logic works correctly

=== Test 5: Persona Formatting ===
✓ PASS: Personas are rich and well-formatted

✅ ALL TESTS PASSED!
```

---

### 🔐 Memory Security Tests (19 tests)

```bash
pytest tests/test_memory_security.py -v
```

Entelgia ships with a comprehensive pytest test suite to ensure the reliability and security of its memory-protection subsystem. The current suite contains **19 tests** divided into three categories:

#### Signature Creation
Tests verify that creating an HMAC-SHA256 signature:
- Returns a 64-character hex string
- Behaves deterministically for the same message and key
- Yields different signatures for different messages
- Properly raises a `ValueError` when supplied with empty or `None` keys/messages

#### Signature Validation
Checks that:
- Valid signatures are accepted
- Wrong keys, tampered messages/signatures, or `None`/empty values correctly cause validation to fail

#### Security Properties
Tests assert that:
- Signatures are unique across multiple inputs and keys
- The implementation supports Unicode messages (Hebrew, mixed-language, Arabic, and emojis)

> ✅ **All 24 tests currently pass** (5 dialogue + 19 security), providing confidence that both the enhanced dialogue system and cryptographic memory-security mechanisms perform as expected.

---

### 🔄 CI/CD Pipeline

In addition to the unit tests, the continuous-integration (CI/CD) pipeline automatically runs a suite of quality and security checks:

| Category | Tools | Purpose |
|----------|-------|---------|
| **Unit Tests** | `pytest` | Runs 24 total tests (19 security + 5 dialogue) |
| **Code Quality** | `black`, `flake8`, `mypy` | Code formatting, linting, and static type checking |
| **Security Scans** | `safety`, `bandit` | Dependency and code-security vulnerability detection |
| **Scheduled Audits** | `pip-audit` | Weekly dependency security audit |
| **Build Verification** | Package build tools | Ensures valid package creation |
| **Documentation** | Doc integrity checks | Validates documentation consistency |

> 🛡️ Together these jobs ensure that **every commit** adheres to style guidelines, passes vulnerability scans and produces a valid package and documentation.

---

## 📰 News & Recognition

**January 2026** — Entelgia was featured by **Yutori AI Agents Research & Frameworks Scout** in their article *"New agent SDKs and skills with secure execution"*.

The article tracked six notable releases focused on plug-and-play enterprise integration, covering platform SDKs, multi-agent prototypes, API skill generation, secure execution, and batteries-included frameworks.

### 🌟 What They Said

> **"Entelgia was highlighted as a psychologically inspired multi-agent architecture – a research prototype designed for persistent identity and moral self-regulation through agent dialogue."**

The scout explained that such capabilities make Entelgia a **promising foundation for long-term customer service and personal-assistant contexts**.

---

### 🔬 Research Positioning

Entelgia was positioned alongside:
- **GitHub's Copilot SDK**
- **openapi-to-skills**
- **Bouvet**
- **antigravity-skills**
- **Deep Agents**

Together, these projects advance three operational levers:

| Lever | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| ⚡ **Faster Integration** | Seamless connection with existing applications |
| 🛡️ **Safer Execution** | Autonomous operation with security guarantees |
| 🎁 **Out-of-the-box Capabilities** | Pre-built functionality packs |

**Entelgia specifically represents the research path for stable, ethically consistent agents.**

---

### 📖 Read More

📢 **Full Article:** [New agent SDKs and skills with secure execution](https://scouts.yutori.com)

---

## 👤 Author

Conceived and developed by **Sivan Havkin**.

---

## 📊 Project Status

* **Status:** Research / Production Hybrid
* **Version:** v2.1.1 (v2.2.0 coming soon with enhanced dialogue)
* **Last Updated:** 14 February 2026

### What is "Research Hybrid"?

The "Research Hybrid" status signals that Entelgia is both a forward-looking research project and a robust, production-grade system.  
It sits at the intersection between academic experimentation and real-world application, blending innovative multi-agent algorithms and theoretical ideas with practical engineering, reliability and developer-friendly workflows. 

**This means:**
- Some modules (e.g. the dialogue engine, memory security, or agent persona modeling) feature experimental, cutting-edge methods that may evolve rapidly.
- At the same time, the system is designed to be stable, usable out-of-the-box, and robust enough for integration in real settings.
- Breaking changes and new features are introduced in a controlled way to balance innovation with stability.
- The project actively solicits both contributors interested in AI/agent research and users who need a dependable foundation for projects that require persistent, moral, and reflective AI agents.

This "hybrid" approach allows Entelgia to bridge the gap between the rapid pace of AI research and the needs of production-grade software.
